Network Working Group                                              T. Li
Request for Comments: 2281                              Juniper Networks
Category: Informational                                          B. Cole
                                                        Juniper Networks
                                                               P. Morton
                                                           Cisco Systems
                                                                   D. Li
                                                           Cisco Systems
                                                              March 1998


                Cisco Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP)

Status of this Memo

   This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does
   not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this
   memo is unlimited.

Abstract

   The memo specifies the Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP).  The goal
   of the protocol is to allow hosts to appear to use a single router
   and to maintain connectivity even if the actual first hop router they
   are using fails.  Multiple routers participate in this protocol and
   in concert create the illusion of a single virtual router.  The
   protocol insures that one and only one of the routers is forwarding
   packets on behalf of the virtual router.  End hosts forward their
   packets to the virtual router.

   The router forwarding packets is known as the active router.  A
   standby router is selected to replace the active router should it
   fail.

1. Introduction

   The Hot Standby Router Protocol, HSRP, provides a mechanism which is
   designed to support non-disruptive failover of IP traffic in certain
   circumstances.  In particular, the protocol protects against the
   failure of the first hop router when the source host cannot learn the
   IP address of the first hop router dynamically.  The protocol is
   designed for use over multi-access, multicast or broadcast capable
   LANs (e.g., Ethernet).

5.1  Packet formats

   The standby protocol runs on top of UDP, and uses port number 1985.
   Packets are sent to multicast address 224.0.0.2 with TTL 1.

5.3 States

   1. Initial - This is the starting state and indicates that HSRP is
      not running.
   2. Learn - The router has not determined the virtual IP address, and
      not yet seen an authenticated Hello message from the active router.
   3. Listen - The router knows the virtual IP address, but is neither
      the active router nor the standby router.
   4. Speak - The router sends periodic Hello messages and is actively
      participating in the election of the active and/or standby router.
   5. Standby - The router is a candidate to become the next active
      router and sends periodic Hello messages.
   6. Active - The router is currently forwarding packets that are sent
      to the group's virtual MAC address.

6.1 General

   On other media, the virtual MAC addresses are 0x00 0x00 0x0C 0x07
   0xAC XX where XX represents the HSRP group number.
